Vegan Pizza

All Ingredients



Pizza and Sauce

Ingredients
1/2 of one Trader Joe’s garlic-herb pizza crust (or half of this homemade recipe or this gluten-free recipe)
1/2 cup each red, green, and orange bell pepper, loosely chopped
1/3 cup red onion, chopped
1 cup button mushrooms, chopped
1/2 tsp each dried or fresh basil, oregano, and garlic powder
1/4 tsp sea salt

Sauce
1 15-ounce can tomato sauce OR 6-ounce can tomato paste (organic when possible)
1/2 tsp each dried or fresh basil, oregano, garlic powder, granulated sugar
Sea salt to taste (~1/4 tsp)

Instructions

Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (218 C) and position a rack in the middle of the oven.

Bring large skillet to medium heat. Once hot, add 1 Tbsp olive oil, onion and peppers. Season with salt, herbs and stir. 
Cook until soft and slightly charred – 10-15 minutes, adding the mushrooms in the last few minutes. Set aside.

Prepare sauce by adding tomato sauce to a mixing bowl and adding seasonings and salt to taste. Adjust seasonings as needed. 
Set aside. Note: If using tomato paste, add water to thin until desired consistency is reached.

Prepare vegan parmesan if you haven’t already by blitzing raw cashes, sea salt, nutritional yeast and garlic powder in a food processor until a fine meal is reached. 
Transfer to jar and refrigerate to keep fresh.

Roll out dough onto a floured surface and transfer to a parchment-lined round baking sheet. 
You’re going to add the pizza WITH the parchment directly to the oven to properly crisp the crust, 
so any round object will do as it’s not actually going into the oven (I use a wood board).
Top with desired amount of tomato sauce (you’ll have leftovers, which you can store in a jar for later use), 
a sprinkle of parmesan cheese and the sautéed veggies.

Use the baking sheet to gently slide the pizza directly onto the oven rack WITH the parchment underneath. Otherwise it will fall through.
Bake for 17-20 minutes or until crisp and golden brown.
Serve with remaining parmesan cheese, dried oregano and red pepper flake.


Vegan Parmasean Cheese

Ingredients

3/4 cup (90 g) raw cashews
3 Tbsp (9 g) nutritional yeast
3/4 tsp sea salt
1/4 tsp garlic powder

Instructions

Add all ingredients to a food processor and mix/pulse until a fine meal is achieved. Store in the refrigerator to keep fresh. Lasts for several weeks.
I love vegan parmesan on top of chilaquiles, vegan pizza, breadsticks, pastas and gratins. It's also a great addition to vegan meatballs and can be converted into mexican cheese 3 ways!

Crust

Ingredients

1	packet	active dry yeast
2	tablespoons	olive oil, plus more for brushing bowl, dough ball and crust
1	teaspoon	kosher salt
3	cups	all- purpose flour, plus more for dusting your work surface
1	cup	slightly warm water


Instructions

In the bowl of a mixer fitted with a dough hook, pour the warm water in and sprinkle with yeast. Let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes.  
*Do not use hot water or it will kill the yeast and your dough will not rise.

Add the sugar, oil, and salt into yeast mixture. 

With the mixer on low, slowly add the flour and mix until a dough ball forms. 
You may want to transfer to a floured work surface and knead by hand until a smooth ball comes together. 
Transfer dough to an oiled bowl and brush top with oil. 
Cover bowl with plastic wrap and set aside in a warm area for about an hour. 
The dough should double in size.

Cut the dough in half. Place both pieces on a floured work surface and gently knead. 
You can roll one piece out now into a 12- inch round.  

To cook now, top with your favorite toppings. 
Brush the exposed dough with olive oil and place in a 450 degree oven on a pizza stone 
(if you have one) for 12 to 15 minutes until the dough is golden brown.

To freeze the second piece, wrap the dough in plastic and place it in a resealable freezer bag for up to 3 months.

Gluten Free Crust

Ingredients

3 cups (440 g) gluten-free flour blend 
	(1 cup (160 g) white rice flour + 1 cup (160 g) brown rice flour + 1 cup (120 g) tapioca flour + 3/4 tsp xanthan gum)
	
1 tsp salt
1/2 tsp baking powder
3 Tbsp (37 g) sugar, divided
1 Tbsp (10 g) yeast
1 1/4 cup (300 ml) warm water, divided
1 Tbsp (15 ml) olive oil

Instructions

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (176 C).

In a small bowl, combine yeast and 3/4 cup (180 ml) warm water - about 110 degrees F (43 C). 
Too hot and it will kill the yeast! Let set for 5 minutes to activate. Sprinkle in 1 Tbsp (12 g) of the sugar a few minutes in.

In a separate bowl, combine gluten free flour blend, salt, baking powder and remaining 2 Tbsp (25 g) sugar. Whisk until well combined.

Make a well in the dry mixture and add the yeast mixture. Add the olive oil and additional 1/2 cup (120 ml) warm water before stirring. 
Then stir it all together until well combined, using a wooden spoon (see photo).

Lightly coat a baking sheet or pizza stone with non-stick spray and plop your dough down. 
Using your hands and a little brown rice flour if it gets too sticky, 
work from the middle and push to spread/flatten the dough out to the edge (see pictures). 
You want it to be pretty thin - less than 1/4 inch.

Put the pizza in the oven to pre-bake for roughly 25-30 minutes, or until it begins to look dry. 
Cracks may appear, but that's normal and totally OK.

Remove from oven and spread generously with your favorite pizza sauce, cheese and desired toppings. 
We went with Daiya to keep ours dairy-free. 
Pop back in oven for another 20-25 minutes, or until the crust edge looks golden brown and the toppings are warm and bubbly.

Cut immediately and serve. Reheats well the next day in the oven or microwave.